# Acute myocardial infarction events

This test case demonstrates the construction of a domain specific
language specific to the generation of OHDSI Cohorts. To get started,
we'll import some boilerplate definitions. This will create the
*DataKnot* called `sp10` that represents our test database.

    Base.include(@__MODULE__, "$(@__DIR__)copybook.jl")

We're going to follow the generated SQL found in `1770674.sql` that was
produced by the JSON found in `1770674.json`. This SQL isn't hand
crafted, so our work here shouldn't be compared directly to SQL.
Before we start our translation, let's run our first query.

    @query sp10 count(person)
    #=>
    ┼────┼
    │ 10 │
    =#

OHDSI has it's own concept identifiers, while one could work with
those, it may be more helpful in a query to use concept code as
provided from a given vocabulary. Let's define `SNOMED` to translate
from the `SNOMED` vocabulary to OHDSI's internal concept identifiers.

    SNOMED(id) = @query begin
                     concept
                     filter((vocabulary_id=="SNOMED") &
                            (concept_code==string($id)))
                     concept_id
                     is1to1()
                 end

Then we could use SNOMED codes and have them automatically translated.

    @query sp10 $SNOMED(22298006)
    #=>
    │ concept_id │
    ┼────────────┼
    │    4329847 │
    =#

We could list all drug exposure concepts.

    @query sp10 begin
        drug_exposure
        group(concept)
        { concept.concept_code, count(drug_exposure) }
    end
    #=>
       │ concept_code  #B │
    ───┼──────────────────┼
     1 │ 311671         1 │
     2 │ 198188         1 │
     3 │ 153666         1 │
     4 │ 197499         1 │
     5 │ 197770         2 │
     6 │ 308964         1 │
     7 │ 310798         1 │
     8 │ 314076         1 │
     9 │ 314077         1 │
    10 │ 858810         2 │
    11 │ 905395         1 │
    =#

We could define a code set and use it to check for the
occurrence of a particular condition.

    IsHypertensive = HasCode(:SNOMED, 38341003)

    @query sp10 condition_occurrence.filter($IsHypertensive)
    #=>
      │ condition_occurrence │
    ──┼──────────────────────┼
    1 │ 11881388             │
    =#
